Sales & Application Engineer - CCUS North America
Req #460
US-Houston-Brookshire, Houston, Texas, United States of America
Job Description
Posted Monday, March 3, 2025 at 12:30 PM | Expired Tuesday, April 22, 2025 at 11:29 AM
MAN Energy Solutions enables its customers to achieve sustainable value creation in the transition towards a carbon neutral future. Addressing tomorrow’s challenges within the marine, energy and industrial sectors, we improve efficiency and performance at a systemic level. Leading the way in advanced engineering for more than 250 years, we provide a unique portfolio of technologies. Headquartered in Germany, MAN Energy Solutions employs some 14,000 people at over 120 sites globally. Our after-sales brand, MAN PrimeServ, offers a vast network of service centres to our customers all over the world.

 

Summary: The Sales and Applications engineer plays a dual role, performing both application engineering and account management functions.  The incumbent is responsible for making equipment configuration selections, performance calculations, budgetary cost estimates, and developing technical descriptions of MAN-ES products using a variety of tools, previous experience with past projects, and input from the MAN-ES business units. The incumbent is also responsible for sales and business development activities associated with new MAN-ES equipment in an assigned geographic territory and/or with assigned accounts.  The application engineering function performed by the incumbent is in support of other Account or Sales Managers in the region as well as in support of his own assigned accounts.  With his own assigned accounts, he or she will promote the company and identify all opportunities for new equipment sales.  In this role he will be responsible for assisting customers in developing their projects by providing technical and commercial information prepared collaboratively with our worldwide centers of excellence for particular products, and leading the company’s efforts from release of an RFQ until a contract is executed.

Key Job Responsibilities:

Key Job Responsibilities1: Application Engineering & Internal Requirements

Participate in trade shows, conferences and select industry organizations.
Make equipment selections for budgetary proposals utilizing a variety of computer-based tools provided by our European product groups.  Develop performance data and technical descriptions of the proposed equipment (performance curves, data sheets, etc.) for use in budgetary proposals.
Prepare cost estimates of equipment quoted for budgetary proposals.    Prepare associated documents for review by account managers and approval of Executive Director or Managing Director of the business unit in the region.
For firm proposals, coordinate the inputs from our region with that from our European operations to develop a complete technical and commercial proposal.  Develop final pricing based on input from our European operations, quotations received by local suppliers, and established guidelines with respect to margins and markups.
Prepare and solicit quotations for major buyout items such as motors, gearboxes, control panels, lube oil systems, etc. to be provided from our region. Develop RFQ packages for these products, including the flow down of applicable customer technical specifications.  Evaluate supplier proposals for compliance to the purchase specifications and required scope of supply.  Prepare comparative tabulations of offerings from alternative suppliers for the same types of equipment.
Assist in the handing over of contracts to the MAN-ES project management organization such that a smooth transition and transfer of project-specific information is achieved.
Help manage and maintain local applications engineering resources such as compressor selection toolbox, sub-supplier quotes, industry standards, product presentations and other materials and files  for use by the members of the team. 
Maintain and update CRM database as proposals and project status evolve.
 

Key Job Responsibilities 2: Sales and Business Development

Develop and maintain relationships with key strategic customers. Initiate contact with assigned and new potential accounts, cultivate good business relationships with key decision makers and ascertain leads.
Develop new and existing client base through early engagement and positioning, consultative selling prior to request for quotation (RFQ) development.
Prepare, lead and negotiate/finalize technical and commercial proposals with customers.
Target potential CCUS customers.
 

Key Job Responsibilities 3: Market Feedback

Communicate project, product and market intelligence with European headquarters and Houston.
Evaluate the CCUS market continuously and assess competitive position based on market knowledge.
Reports on competitive situations and maintains regular customer contact.
Participate in the development of required promotional content and materials.
Understand customers’ needs and requirements relative to products and services to ensure customers have a thorough understanding of the products and services through training and presentations.
Manage customer relationships and communicate customer feedback.
 

 

Required Education:

Bachelors of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering or equivalent scientific discipline.

 

Required Experience:

Minimum five years of experience in marketing, sales, application engineering, project engineering, and/or project management associated with complex engineer-to-order equipment.  Previous experience with large rotating equipment such as turbo-compressors, blowers, steam turbines, and gas turbines is strongly preferred. The candidate must be able to interact and work effectively with different cultures and nationalities. Language proficiency in German and/or Spanish is desirable but not required.

Desired Experience:

3-5 years experience in compressor application engineering.
Experience working with and commenting to API standards.
 

Required 3rd party Certifications/Qualifications: None

Other skills:

Ability to read and interpret documents such as safety procedures, technical specifications, and legal contracts.
Ability to design and create presentations for customers.
Working knowledge of thermodynamics, aerodynamics, and rotor dynamics as applicable to compressors and turbines.
Ability to speak and write in English is required. Ability to speak effectively before groups of customers or employees of MAN-ES.
Ability to calculate figures and amounts such as discounts, interest, commissions, proportions, percentages, areas, circumference and volume. Ability to apply concepts of basic algebra and geometry.
Ability to solve practical problems and deal with a variety of concrete variables in situations where only limited standardization exists.  Ability to interpret a variety of instructions furnished in written, oral, diagram or schedule form.
Familiarity with applicable industry standards (API, ASME, IEC, etc.) that are typically specified by clients for our equipment.
MAN Energy Solutions USA, Inc. is an equal opportunity employer, all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability or status as a protected veteran.
