
Title:  Director & Head, Payments Strategy and Planning

Requisition ID: 217179

Salary Range: 180,000.00 - 301,500.00 

Please note that the Salary Range shown is a guideline only. Salary offered may vary based on factors, including, but not limited to, the successful candidate’s relevant knowledge, skills, and experience.

 

Join a purpose driven winning team, committed to results, in an inclusive and high-performing culture.

 

Title: Director and Head, Payments Strategy & Planning, Global Transaction Banking – New York, NY 


Global Transaction Banking 

Global Transaction Banking (GTB) is the payments and transaction engine of Scotiabank. We support Small Business, Commercial and Corporate clients with effective treasury management solutions coupled with a best-in-class service model, making it easy for clients to do business with us.


As businesses build their digital capabilities and transform their operating models, their payment needs are evolving too. Boasting a unique global footprint, GTB’s comprehensive suite of innovative banking solutions help our business clients generate operational efficiencies, streamline and simplify payments, improve working capital performance, and mitigate financial risk.


At Scotiabank, we embrace your strengths, ideas, and ambitions. GTB is a fast-growing team with a focus on the Americas, particularly Canada, the U.S., Mexico, and we are seeking top tier talent to complement our organization.


Join a purpose-driven winning team, committed to results, in an inclusive and high-performing culture.

Purpose: Leads business strategy and transformation for Global Transaction Banking (“GB”), including setting long-term vision for the organization, developing ‘case for change’ in support of key growth initiatives, and driving high-priority transformation initiatives across the organization.  Serves as strategic advisor to GTB executive team.


What You’ll Do:

Leads assessment of opportunities for Global Transaction Banking from a strategy and product vision, customer experience, delivery, business case, and industry perspective; responsible for providing critical business recommendations to GTB executive team.
Serves as a strategic advisor for GTB leadership team on competitive intelligence, operating model design, best practices, setting of objectives and key results (OKRs), and end-to-end coordination of strategic initiatives across the business (Product, Operations, Sales, Technology, etc.).
Shapes team communication including GTB updates to C-suite, bringing together the Global Transaction Banking organization of 500+ team members to share priorities and success stories.
Synthesize business performance in light of ambitious dynamics and trends, customer perception and behaviour, and transaction patterns in partnership with Data & Analytics team.
Collaborate with Product Management leads, Enterprise Strategy, Partnerships, and Corporate Development as needed to ensure that we are taking an overall ‘all bank’ and Pan-American view of our approach to new initiatives.
Engage and build relationships with stakeholders across Product, Technology, Design, Analytics, Operations, Risk, Controls, Finances, and the Lines of Business to influence change agenda.
Creates an environment in which his/her team pursues effective and efficient operations of his/her respective areas in accordance with Scotiabank’s Values, its Code of Conduct and the Global Sales Principles, while ensuring the adequacy, adherence to and effectiveness of day-to-day business controls to meet obligations with respect to operational, compliance, AML/ATF/sanctions and conduct risk. 
Leads a high performance team and implements a people strategy that attracts, retains, develops and motivates their team by fostering an inclusive work environment and using a coaching mindset and behaviours; communicating vision/values/business strategy; and, managing succession and development planning for the team.

What You'll Bring:  

Demonstrated relationship and partner management skills, with a client focus that carries demonstrated experience and professionalism in client facing situations
Minimum 8+ years of experience in management consulting and/or in comparable enterprise strategy role with either a financial institution or fintech.
Adept at strategic planning including leading scoping activities and developing approaches for opportunity development and assessment
Hands on experience with payments modernization programs (e.g., Canada, US, UK, Australia, Europe) 
Deep payments expertise and acumen; well versed in both business and technology to serve as an efficient liaison between business strategy functions and key stakeholders
Expertise leading, recruiting, and managing a high-performing team 
Strong business analysis skills and data-focused approach to business case development, including financial opportunity assessments and client needs analysis

Interested? 
At Scotiabank, every employee is empowered to reach their fullest potential, respected for who they are and, embraced for their differences. That’s why we work to grow and diversify talent and engage employees in a performance-oriented culture.


What's in it for you? 
Scotiabank wants you to be able to bring your best self to work – and life, every day. With a focus on holistic well-being, our many flexible benefit programs are designed to help support your unique family, financial, physical, mental, and social health needs.

 

#GTB

Location(s):  United States : New York : New York City

Scotiabank is a leading bank in the Americas. Guided by our purpose: "for every future", we help our customers, their families and their communities achieve success through a broad range of advice, products and services, including personal and commercial banking, wealth management and private banking, corporate and investment banking, and capital markets.  

At Scotiabank, we value the unique skills and experiences each individual brings to the Bank, and are committed to creating and maintaining an inclusive and accessible environment for everyone. If you require accommodation (including, but not limited to, an accessible interview site, alternate format documents, ASL Interpreter, or Assistive Technology) during the recruitment and selection process, please let our Recruitment team know. If you require technical assistance, please click here. Candidates must apply directly online to be considered for this role. We thank all applicants for their interest in a career at Scotiabank; however, only those candidates who are selected for an interview will be contacted.