Full job description
Apple is a place where extraordinary people gravitate to do their life's best work. Together we craft products and experiences people once couldn’t have imagined - and now can’t imagine living without. Are you inspired to make a difference in how digital payments, commerce, identity and access products will work in a privacy-centric world? Join us to build the next generation of delightful experiences for Apple's customers globally. Apple’s Wallet, Payments and Commerce (WPC) organization is looking for a leader in our Program Management Office (PMO), a diverse and talented team that plays a crucial role in building some of the most impactful software products and services trusted by many millions of customers every day. We want to meet you if you are skilled at organizing and managing teams that drive software product development across globally-distributed and cross-functional organizations.

Description

Drive end-to-end projects, from concept to launch, delivering innovative features that enhance the Apple customer experience. As a strategic leader, you will build and empower high-performing teams, establish scalable systems, and ensure seamless execution across complex, cross-functional initiatives. Key responsibilities: Strategic & Operational Leadership: Define and evolve the Program Management function, implementing frameworks that drive efficiency, execution, and continuous improvement. Team Development: Attract, mentor, and lead a world-class team of Program Managers, fostering a high-performance and growth-oriented culture. Cross-Functional Execution: Drive collaboration across Software Engineering, AI/ML, Hardware Technologies, Data Science, Product Management, Business development, Business Operations, Legal, Privacy, Compliance, and Partner Engineering teams to align efforts and accelerate innovation. Risk & Stakeholder Management: Navigate technical discussions, identify interdependencies, proactively mitigate risks, and ensure successful delivery despite ambiguity. Executive Influence: Communicate insights and strategies to senior leadership, shaping key business decisions.

Minimum Qualifications
15+ years experience in software development Program Management with 10+ years experience leading Program Management teams.
Experience shipping consumer-focused software features and products at the scale of the internet, across multiple countries with diverse cultural and regulatory environments.
Extraordinary collaboration skills, excelling at high-level thinking and execution, pragmatically influencing and inspiring others to achieve ambitious goals.
Technical intuition and understanding of engineering concepts with the demonstrated ability to grasp complex design and process problems and distill them into simple instructions.

Preferred Qualifications
Track record of fighting for excellence, ensuring high quality work by empowering and influencing others to do their best work, sometimes pushing them further than they expected was possible.
Ability to focus and simplify. Demonstrate expertise in being able to distill complex, multifaceted problems into accessible, solvable actions.
Inquisitive by nature, stay curious and role model a desire for continued self-improvement and development of new skills over the course of your career.
Commitment to innovating down to the details. Pay attention to the little things and show enthusiasm to zoom into roadblocks that are hindering forward progress. Find creative solutions that allow the team to overcome setbacks and make the product better in the process.
Dedication to instilling candor and resilience. Motivate your team and partners to keep going and make progress, despite challenges. Be proactive and transparent in your communication and be willing to deliver concerns or discouraging news in a productive, solution-oriented manner.
Mentality of planning for scale and succession. Think beyond short-term wins and needs of the moment. Prepare your team and partner organizations for new challenges that arise from changes in scale, scope and succession.
Technical experience working with payment processors, issuers, networks, platform providers and e-commerce merchants within the payment industry is nice to have, but not a requirement.
Bachelors degree or equivalent work experience.
Current or former Program Management experience at Apple is a highly desired plus.

Pay & Benefits

At Apple, base pay is one part of our total compensation package and is determined within a range. This provides the opportunity to progress as you grow and develop within a role. The base pay range for this role is between $209,800 and $349,600, and your base pay will depend on your skills, qualifications, experience, and location.

Apple employees also have the opportunity to become an Apple shareholder through participation in Apple’s discretionary employee stock programs. Apple employees are eligible for discretionary restricted stock unit awards, and can purchase Apple stock at a discount if voluntarily participating in Apple’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan. You’ll also receive benefits including: Comprehensive medical and dental coverage, retirement benefits, a range of discounted products and free services, and for formal education related to advancing your career at Apple, reimbursement for certain educational expenses - including tuition. Additionally, this role might be eligible for discretionary bonuses or commission payments as well as relocation. Learn more about Apple Benefits.

Note: Apple benefit, compensation and employee stock programs are subject to eligibility requirements and other terms of the applicable plan or program.

Apple is an equal opportunity employer that is committed to inclusion and diversity. We take affirmative action to ensure equal opportunity for all applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, Veteran status, or other legally protected characteristics. Learn more about your EEO rights as an applicant.


